Calculate Shapley value for one feature.
Implement a function that calculates the Shapley value for
a single feature by iterating across all subsets S. So,
this is the formula you may be familiar with from the previous exercise.
We're going to implement this in code here.
So, as a bonus, you can try to implement this yourself,
otherwise continue with the rest of
this video where I'll give an overview of the starter code.
So, I'll explain these three lines here.
So, what I'm trying to do is set the all features, in our case,
it's going to be zero, one, two representing integers for all of those three features.
Remember that X has three columns,
so it has three features.
So, let's just grab the first row from that.
Okay. So, for the single row,
let's set all features more programmatically.
So, what we can do instead is numpy.arange,
and we can say from zero to three for instance.
This still gives us what we want.
So now, instead of saying three hard-coded,
let's just say x.shape,
so lowercase x.shape gives a tuple,
so if I grab the index zero position we get that integer.
So, let's replace this with x.shape(0) and all feature is like this. All right.
Okay. So, now we're going to create all the features minus i,
and to do that, I'm going to actually
convert this to a set so then I can use this function remove.
Because right now it's a numpy array,
so all_features., there's no remove function for instance in here.
So, in order to make this work,
I want to put the numpy array inside the set constructor.
So, now it's a set, so now I can call the remove function,
and we can see here.
Now it's removed feature zero.
Okay. So, notice that this was changed in place
so I need to first make a copy of this so that's what this copying is doing,
so that I don't overwrite the original variable.
So, here we start here,
we go all_features.copy and then save it as all_features_minus_i
and then all_features_minus_i.remove let's
say we'll just remove feature zero for instance.
So we go here, here, here.
So, I know all_features_minus_i is just a copy and then after we remove it,
then it's excluding i now.
Okay. So, that's what these three lines of code are.
Now, for S list,
generate all subsets S. This you can actually call the function that we defined earlier,
phi will initialize it to some value so you can think about what that would be,
and the number of total features is the length of this all features variable.
So, now we would just go through a loop of all these sets that's S
and we would add on
the weights on the marginal contribution times the marginal contribution of i.
So, this part is actually,
if I go back to the formula,
here's the weight and then here's the marginal contribution.
Notice that we've already created functions that
calculate this and another function that calculates this.
The last tint for the starter code is notice that I do check if
none is in the set S because we use none as a place holder to say an empty set,
but if we were to count the number of
elements in some set or list then none would still be counted.
So, you just want to check and you want to define the number of
elements in S a bit differently when it's got the keyword none as part of that subset.
So, once you're done trying this out,
you can go ahead and try the function after you've implemented it,
and then you can move on to the solution video.